---
layout: post
title: pass
comments: false
categories:
  - tips
tags:
  - password
  - unix
  - commandline
---

I've started to use [pass](https://www.passwordstore.org/)
([ArchWiki article](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/pass))
to manage my password.

IMHO, this tool is far better than other password manager that I've used.
The reasons are listed here, in no particular order:

- passwords are generated and encrypted by `gpg`.
This is your real last password and your single point of failure.
- Each password entry is stored in each own files.
This design decision has its own PRO and CON:

    - **PRO** It's easy to use with cli, and dmenu.
    The autocomplete, and password store overview is simple.
    `pass` will simply list all the files.
    - **PRO** unlike other password manager, which saves everything inside
    one big bucket, give out a single point of failure.
    With `pass`, when you lose 1 password entry (let's say because of disk
    faulty), you still have other entries with you.
    Albeit, your single point of failure isn't completely eliminated.
    It's shifted to your OpenPGP's key.
    - **PRO & CON** `git` intergration, it's easy to synchronise password
    between multiple devices, check password history.
    We'll just need to set up a central git repository in one computer with:

        # init common repository
        mkdir ~/.cache/pass.git && git -C ~/.cache/pass.git init --bare
    Then, we can do normal git workflow with the repo, whenever we make 
    some changes into the tracked password store,
    `pass` will automatically commit the change into git.
    Of course, we can clone directly from `~/.password-store/git`,
    but it's harder to push back the change to the computer.
    The drawback is the password history and old password object is still
    available. Especially in case your OpenPGP key is compromised.
    In that case, you need to replace the OpenPGP key immdediately,
    change all of your passwords,
    and if it's necessary, build a new history for your password store.
    - **CON** The sites that you're registered is available to your sysadmin,
    this problem could be mitigated by not use the site name for pass entry.
    Let's say we can use dump-bin for GitHub.
    - **CON** If `gpg-agent` is running and your OpenPGP key is being cached,
    some mallicious program may call pass to read it.
    To mitigate this problem, I'm using a different vault for fetching mail.
    My main OpenPGP key will be used to encrypt other passwords,
    and it won't be cached by `gpg-agent`.
